# HIST3814: Exit Ticket 

 Welcome to my Exit Ticket Reflection. I know we had the option to complete this last piece of work in anyway we wanted, but I feel ending on Github is a full circle sort of thing. This was after all the first (new) tool I was taught to use in this course. As the weeks went by, I familiarized myself with it further and by the end, I can admit I feel completely comfortable using the basics of the platform… Which I think is a perfect analogy for this course!

I think this course was created in a way that allowed each student to really dig in to each of the learning objectives and then apply their new-found knowledge to the final, week six, project. Each week we focused on a new area of the field of digital humanities, learned new important skills that could be used later on in the course and other classes and discovered new useful tools that unlocked completely new ways to work with historical and digital data. The following is a quick breakdown of how I feel I’ve don against the 5 learning outcomes:
    

> 1. This course will enable you to analyze and assess historical documents, artifacts, and other primary sources through the lens of digital history methods, critically applied, and you will develop awareness of the ways digital tools change what it is possible to know about the past.


I personally have never taken a history class in university, and as I mentioned on my podcast, I am never one to really become inolved in 'historical content' (I know it is a broad term). Although, I will say I have learned to appreciate it more. To me, each week and in every task we did, it was more like uncovering secret meanings in the data or stories. Whether that was uncovering patterns in the dates, or themes that appear most often in a text or even uncovering unknown connections between documents and people. I felt that with the introduction of certain tools used in the field, I gained the ability to analyze historical sources in ways I never thought possible before. I feel I have grown quite abit as a self proclaimed 'Beginner Digital Historian' and learned to appreciate the field much more than I anticipated. 

> 2. At the same time, this ability will enable you to analyze and assess critically digital tools and methods from a historical perspective.

Much like the first learning outcome, I feel like I tackled this one quite well. I have never really done an assignment that required me to look at the historical aspect of things, but I definetly have the knowledge and tools to do so now. In fact, with each passing week I feel like I enhanced these skills. I feel the things I learned regarding this outcome especially, will really help me develop certain projects in my future courses for my degree. I am happy I decided to take very detailed notes about each of the proccesses and readings, as I looked back on these most weeks when I needed help fixing a problem (especially in week 6... detailed notes of my struggles were a god-send). I feel these repository of notes will be very helpful in the future if I wish to use one of these tools again!

> 3. Given that this is an online course, another outcome will be your ability to conduct such research independently. However, no one operates in a vacuum; digital historians collaborate to troubleshoot or develop technologies, and through open practices to data sharing and reuse, learn to build upon each others’ work in a collaborative fashion.

I feel my week 6 work is a perfect example of how this outcome was checked off. I 100% would not have been able to conduct a mini project like I did now, in week one. I was honestly a little impressed with myself tat I had the ability to do all I did, collecting, analyzing, exploring and presenting the historical information and narrative that I did. I would have never imagned 6 weeks ago doing something like that, especially independently. I ran into issues but was able to trouble shoot and adapt, I looked at the diary critically and re-routed what I originally thought and overall, I feel I learned more about that time period then I would have expected. As for collaboration, I don't think I could have fully completely any of the weekly work if the discord group did not exist. I used that as my first ressource when I ran into trouble, then Google if all else failed (but the discord chat was typically the best fix). It was good to know that many people struggled with the same things I did. Although there was a few things I could not fix, no matter ho hard I tried. I will have to remeber to reach out to the professor next time, I just have never really been great at asking for help. It is something I am working on! In total, there was a few times I had to step outside of my comfortzone to figure something out, but it was all part of the growing expirience in this course! I just wish I had been able to help others as much as they helped me.

> 4. Another outcome will be the ability to translate the results of digital methods into historical argument.

This outcome was tackled almost every week when we would complete a task with a new tool, we would be doing so to uncover the meaning behind th historical information we were working with. Each week, I felt we transformed the data we originally had into something with abit more meaning. This was especially evident in weeks 4 and 5, wen I felt we manipulated, transformed and analyzed historical content the most. All lessons I carried with me into the last week to complete my own project.

> 5. Digital work is often necessarily therefore a kind of public work, and a final outcome therefore will be a professionalized presence online.

This one I can not speak too much on, but I feel I learned how to manage my online prescence more. How to go abut certain tasks and apear online. The first week tackled this right away when it taught us how to properly send a "help email". Even in the discord, I felt everyone was very kind to eachother and worded their responses in informational, kind but easy to understand ways. I did not speak in it, but I browse through often. My one wish for this course is thta I spoke up abit more in the doscord or in class "discussions" through Hypothesis. I have always been shy, and when I feel I do not know much about certain elements I find it increasingly harder to take a chance and say something (even if it is a very welcoming platform). This is a personal thing I must improve on for the future. Overall, I did keep the good practices we learnt in mind each week and hope to continue to do so in the future. 

I am not sure how exactly to go about this... but I think I would be happy with an A- in this course! In conclusion, I am very happy with the amount of growth I went through in this course and I think that mark would reflect that. I learned so much more than I ever throught I would, and even gained a much better appreciation for history as a whole. There are some things we looked at, the sound tools especially, that I promised my self I will explore further. I can not ever remember being so intrigued by something relating to history and data! I gained many new skills that I know I will use in the future and had an overall positive expirience each week.  I do not think I'll be reading textbooks in my spare time, but I might be inclined to take another digital humanities course in the future. 
